>> Josh: We're gonna talk about access control
lists today, managing and deploying these things.
And we're gonna talk specifically about file
system access controls and we're gonna talk
about service access controls basically
ACLs ands SACLs as we like to call them.
We're not gonna get into dACLs, which
would be the directory access ones.
So we're not gonna get into any other kind of access control
on Mac OS X strictly looking at the deploying and managing
of the other two that are the ones that
you commonly see in an IT environment
since this is more of an administration sort of track.
That said, my name is Josh Wiesnbecher (Sp?) I'm one of
the enterprise CE's at Apple computer that takes care
of I take care of deployment and
management of client technologies.
And even though this is an IT sort of track before I get
into my little bit I wanna introduce John Fagan who's one
of our local file system engineers to talk to you a
little bit about how all this stuff actually works.
( Applause )
>> John: Alright, as said, I'm John
Fagan I work in the file systems group.
And we're talking mainly about the
implementation of re sales just
to give you an idea of what they are and how they work.
And I'll also be talking about the command
line interface because that's where I live.
Josh will be talking about the graphics later.
As everyone should already be familiar with the CH pod
command, we have it have had Apple in CH pod since Tiger.
The (inaudible) describes them in very good detail
I recommend reading it if you haven't already.
The basic syntax is you say plus A that indicates you're
gonna be adding an ACL or an ace to a file ace enter
to access control entry and access
control has a list of those.
You can use minus A to remove a specific one.
And dash capital N will remove all the ACLs from the
file if you need to clear it out for some reason.
The LS command has been extended and this was in
Tiger to show a plus on the out put of LS dash L
and that's the permission bit to
indicate that there is an ACL on the file.
The reason it is right next, right at the end of
the (inaudible) is that any script that happens
to parsit (Sp?) based on spaces will continue to work.
And I verify that all my scripts
continue to work, which is useful.
The (inaudible) dash E is a list out the ACLs for the file
in the example on the screen describes it pretty well.
There are number when you use the CH model, you can
specify an order and again, this is in the man page.
Josh will get into the semantics of ACLs later
describing why you'd want to care about the order.
If, the new and leopard, if you
want, if you specify the at sign
to that LS dash L it will list out
extended attributes that a file has.
Again, Y is similar with the plus sign at, at the end of
the mode bit it will indicate that there are EA's present.
The one caveat there is, if a file has both ACLs
and the EA's only the at sign will be listed.
Now, I said I would talk about
the implementation here it is.
On most of the file systems ACLs are implemented as EA's.
As we've indicated in the past EA's have a
reverse DNS name or we recommend you use this.
So, EA's on for example, HFS plus UF as etcetera
are in the com dot apple dot system dot security EA,
witch does not show up to any other attributes.
So generally, this doesn't matter, unless you happen to
be set kind of set in EA with that name and find out.
It doesn't work.
Now since it's all supplemented as an EEA on those file
systems it's also subject to the normal limitations
that an EA may have on that file
system, which I'll get to in a bit.
File systems that have native EA
support are HFS plus and UDF.
And as we've mentioned as available
is that FS also has native EA support.
File systems that do not have native EA's,
which include UFS and MS dot also NFS
for the network file system implement
EA's using an Apple double file.
The kernel will emulate this by creating a dot
under bar file with the same name as file fu.
The kernel will create and manipulate dot under bar fu.
Now when I say this as an Apple double file.
It's not exactly an Apple double file.
It's a very limited version of it.
It only supports the finder info section and the
resource force section and the EA's are in this gap
between the finder and fo and resource fork.
The (inaudible) are getting used more and more
You know as 10 and as we started saying with Tiger.
We recommend you use those for
storing small amounts of metadata.
The OS X uses several of them, again using the reverse DNS
information com dot apple dot finder info com dot apple dot
resource fork are the, well finder and
info and resource fork fairly obviously
ACLs and corn king, which I'm not sure we've
mentioned yet, but will start showing up on your files.
Since they're implemented as EA's and ACLs as well
as generic EA's have some limitations on HFS plus.
There is about a 3000 byte jus0t under four K limit
for the size of an EA except for the resource fork.
When it's emulated for example, on USF or MS
dos there's about a 64 k byte limdits total.
And EDTA can be up to that size.
There is no hard limit on the number of EA's.
So if you're going to write a program
or script to stifle through them.
Then you need to be prepared that there may be lots.
Some of my test programs generate 10,000 EA's on a file.
Now for the IT track most important is
to be concerned about maintaining EA's.
We have, since Tiger, we have had program, the
command line programs, tried to deal with them.
There have been bugs, but generally, they do work
and they've been working better with each version.
Rsink and SEP actually do not copy EA's by default.
You have to use the dash capital E option to get them.
CP will copy them by default.
You have to tell it not to, but you need
the CP dash P option to copy the ACL
because that's the only way CP will copy permissions.
Tar will copy everything by default.
And sort the files in the EA metadata
as a dot under bar file in the archive.
If you extract it on another file
system or another operating system,
and then retar it up it will just work
because the file has the right name.
One caveat is that when you modify an EA on the system.
The modification time for the file does not change.
The only exception for this is on
HSF plus with the resource fork.
And that is due to the actual implementation
of HSF plus where the resource fork
and data fork are considered parts
of the same aspects of the file.
No other EA causes a modification time.
If we're going to be looking at copying
files over based on their modification time.
You have to be aware of this.
Now this is just for any programmers in the room,
or anyone who wants to write their own code.
Tar and all the other utilities, copy and
manipulate EA's using the copy fly routine.
This is a routine that was added to Tiger, but as a
private interface we've made it public for leopard.
We recommend you use it.
It can copy all the metadata we support, which includes
the POSIX permissions, the EA's, ACLs, quarantine bit,
and anything else we happen to add later.
It also can copy the normal data.
I've got two usages on this screen.
The first one will copy just the metadata.
The second one is the simplest
CP program we have on the system.
One caveat, it only works on single files.
It won't copy an entire hierarchy.
But I like it I recommend people use it.
And that's it for me.
Let's go back to Josh.
( Applause )
>> Josh: Thanks Shawn.
All right thank you Shawn.
So now that everyone's got a little
bit of better understanding.
I think underneath of what's going on hopefully we'll
avoid the whole arsenic OS X server and bloodbath thing
in Q and A later because that's fixed now.
So work in a talk a little bit about
file system asil administration.
Just a quick show of hands, how many people in
here are more administrative than developer?
I should have expected that in the IT track actually.
I imagine.
So we are going to talk a little bit about ACL's
why we have them, what we're using them for.
In the very first thing to know about is the
whole point in using these file system ACL's is
to give you more control over your file system.
We always before at this (inaudible) file
permissions, you know the owner of the group, everyone.
And then you had just your three bits on that you could set.
And it was extremely easy to get stuck.
Because you couldn't do anything more than
owner group, everyone else on the system.
So you if you had to say give two different
varying levels to two different groups.
If you had the owner you wanted to have one
thing and everyone else got something else.
And then you had one group you wanted to read access
in one group you wanted write only access
like a drop box, you couldn't do it.
So you're kind of get stuck.
We had a bunch of these special so that we could
throw on their stickies and other things like that.
And you could kinda try and make things work.
But it really didn't do exactly what you wanted.
And it became difficult to make it work that way.
So ACL's give us a lot more flexibility, and a lot more
control and more importantly, a lot more granular control.
So how do these things actually work when
we start looking at them and figuring
out how we're going to evaluate our file system?
Well, the basic items of this include a gued (Sp?).
This is something new on OS X and 10
three and four, and it's coming on up.
And we have gueds for just all kinds of stuff now.
And all it is, and sometimes you'll see it called the
UUID to, this allows you to uniquely identify something
in the operating system, whether
it's a user, whether it's a volume.
You can use this in F stab to put
mouse points and things like that in.
But their unique across space and
time or so claims the man page.
And they're made by taking the Mac address and
just like milliseconds since the Epoc (Sp?)
in some sort of other calculation thrown in there.
And so you get these big alphanumeric
numbers that are unique.
And these are really important because
if we just use traditional UID,
say what's everyone's first UID on their system?
It's 501. So if I had 501 and someone else at 501 and
someone else at 501 and I tried to do ACLs with that.
They'll get the same resolution because the system doesn't
really care about your name he cares about your number.
So the gued allows us to have is absolutely
guaranteed function across space and time.
Don't change them.
I've seen people try to duplicate them on
different systems to get similar results.
That's all bad.
Don't do that.
So an ACL it self is actually a list of
things called aces, access control entries.
And an ace itself is a list of four specific items.
So each ace includes the gued of the user or
the group that this particular ace applies to.
That allows you to uniquely tie it to a specific thing.
The permission of type, whether this
is an allow or whether this is a deny,
and we'll talk a little bit about the differences in those.
There are some really significant changes to the
way the system behaves when it sees allow or deny.
And this comes into the ordering
that Shawn was talking about.
The actual permissions setting, we
have 13 different possible permissions.
We can set all to individual allow or deny.
So you can make up an incredibly complicated
ACL to control access to single folders.
And then we also have the inherited field.
And what the inherited field does is it specifies
whether this ace was inherited from the public folder
from the parent folder or whether it
was explicitly defined on that folder.
And there are, like I said, 13 possible permissions.
We are way beyond read write execute at this point.
So these are organized into three different
categories to help you kind of keep an idea down
and understand what it is you're working on.
And its administrative privileges,
read privileges, and write privileges.
Under administration, privileges, and I should note that
a lot of our ACL's mirror the Windows ACL and management.
And this is good for you as administrators,
because it makes us compatible with the UCL world,
and it also makes it so that our ACL's are not
strange scary Apple ACL's to all the Microsoft guys.
It gains us a lot of acceptance in the IC server room.
So these are ones that if you ever admin a
Windows file server, which I have had the glory
of doom before you're really familiar
with these because it's difficult,
especially on 2000 to just tak e control
of things and change things around.
So these two administration privileges are change
permissions which allows the user to change the permissions
on there or take ownership meaning
you could CH own it basically to you.
So you can block these two out for regular users, and
then you're pretty well certain that they're not going
to be able to take any control over anything.
They're not going to be able to just arbitrarily
change the permissions on your file system.
We've got read privileges.
And we've got read attributes, which is things like the time
and the modification date and creation
date things like that.
We've got read extended attributes and reading
these EA's allows us to see like our new,
like the folder EA's, and the finder EA's.
It also allows us to read the ACL's.
We also have list folder contents, which
would be like if you did in LS on directory.
You can read out the contents without
actually going into the directory.
This also allows you to read the data in a file.
We have traverse folder.
This would be like if you type a CD
directory and you actually went inside that.
And this is what you need to create a drop box.
Even if you don't give any other read permissions.
You have to be able to traverse that
file bound the, the directory boundary.
And this also is equivalent to the execute on a file.
And then we also have read permissions in this
allows you to read the permissions on a file.
Even in the server when we go in here and you turn off
all this stuff, and you don't want the user to happen.
Even if you go in and give them a deny on it.
It is going to give them a read attributes
and extended attributes and permissions.
Because how is the finder otherwise going to read the
ACLs to know that he can't let you touch the file?
You have to be able to see the extended attributes
to be able to know what to do with that file.
We have some write privileges as well.
And these are very similar.
They're pretty much just opposite of the other ones.
We can write our attributes, which are things like
change the creation date change the modification date.
We can change the extended attributes,
which would allow someone to edit the ACL.
You can have, you can create files, which is write data.
This would be adding files to a fold her.
You can create a folder which is
also a pending data to a file.
And we can delete and delete subfolders and files.
And the key thing here with delete,
delete means this actual item.
Alright, so deleting this actual item or deleting the
subfolders and files contained within this directory.
If you want users to be able to rename files and
folders inside a directory they actually have to be able
to remove it and rename it and drop the file back down.
So they have to be able to have the delete
subfolders and files to rename files and folders.
So now we know a little bit about
what the aces are what the ACLs are,
what our permission possibilities
are and there's a lot of them.
So one of the things that people get confused on
is how these are actually applied by the system.
And ACL, as it would sound access control
list is just a list of access control entries.
And so what we can look that there
is the order of precedence
that determines how Mac OS X is going
to decide how to act upon those.
So the thing to remember is one
ACL's are checked first starts,
if there's any ACL's signed to that it starts there first.
It starts at the top of the list, and
it just goes one by one down the list.
The ACL in the POSIX permissions are going to be combined.
If it doesn't find matches in the
ACL's for what it's looking for.
It's got a look at the POSIX, and it's
going to composite those two together
to create what the individual users should be able to see.
And the POSIX permissions are only
going to be used if no ace matches.
And that deny ace overrides everything.
If I tell someone to deny Shawn write to this folder
because the E doesn't need to stick in his head in here.
What's going to happen is, that's
automatically, in workgroup manager,
or looking at it with LS is going
to jump to the top of the list.
And that's a very important security point,
because you don't want to run into conflicts,
where if I had to deny on Jule and I had an allow
on the CD group team, which Jule's a member of,
the problem would be if I have that allow
above the deny his explicit deny wouldn't take
because this thing stops when it finds its match.
And if it finds an allow before
it finds a deny it lets people in.
So in order to combat that and make it so you don't
have to worry about it that deny's always jump
to the top of the list and you can't move them
You can not bring them down.
And any deny overrides any allow.
So you've gone to the situation there where you have
to remember it's kind of like the atomic bomb of ACL's.
If you put a deny down there that's it.
Those users that match that aren't going to get in there.
An evaluation for each requested
permissions stops when that match is found.
And there's 13 different ones it's going to be looking for.
So you can have this nested in and we'll look at
some of these in our demo, where we have one group
that has both a deny and an allow and an enclosing group
one that includes that one all of them layering together
to build out what the affected
permissions are for that user.
It can get really complicated really fast.
So usage and propagation of this, he usages
model that Apple has is fairly simple.
We apply ACL to folders.
We don't apply ACL to files (inaudible)
or to tools and application of aces
to files is only done through inheritance.
And there are four types of inheritance
you need to consider.
So we have just applied to this
folder, and when you do this one.
It doesn't affect anything inside the folder.
These are things that only apply to that particular item.
We've apply to child folders.
So this one used in this method, you notice,
doesn't apply to the parent folder at all.
It only applies to the child, first level
child folders inside that directory tree.
Same goes for child files.
And then if you want to recurs back down all the way
through, you have an apply to all the descendents.
Notice if you just use apply to all descendents.
It doesn't apply to the parent folder here.
So you're going to have to mix and match
these to come up with the ones you want.
By default when you define an ace it's going to put
all of them down so that it automatically applies
to the parent folder, and everything in it.
Now when I say, it automatically
applies to everything in it.
That's the place where were different from the Windows
systems and that we do not do automatic ACL propagation
when you click the okay button or the save button.
We have to propagate these things down.
And propagation of ace, ACL's only happens
in Mac OS X at two very specific times.
One of them is a follow directory creation time, the kernel
will actually apply that ACL to that new file or new folder.
Or you could use an administrative tool that propagation
tool in server admin on Leopard or (inaudible) manager
on Tiger or CH mod you could use also to apply recursively
just like you always do, although Shawn will probably,
not like I say, doing ACL's from the command
line to do complex ones gets very cumbersome.
They're very long.
And they'll show you some of these and what they look like.
But if one of these two events
does not happen no ACL's propagate.
Time and time again I've seen a SysAdmin that
goes in selects that parent folder in their tree,
turns in all their inheritance bits, clicks save, and
then calls their alliance line because nothing happened.
Well, nothing happened because
nothing triggered the propagation.
So you do have to be aware of that.
So like I said, setting the inherent in
its will not automatically propagate ACL's.
Again, if you have ever been blessed with being a Windows
server adminal arch file server you probably know the pain
of changing one ace in an ACL, clicking okay, then having
Windows Explorer sit there and just kind of hang on you
for 25 minutes, while it recourses
through some giant directory going
down through the tree and applying that change.
I really like the way we do it more.
And I do really also like the propagation tool because
of the control it gives you over what you propagate.
And we'll take a look at that in our demo as well.
So this is a Leopard sort of session.
So we're going to talk about Leopard tools.
On all these same sort of ideas here
apply to workgroup manager on Tiger.
If any of you have taken your little Leopard disc out so
far, and popped it in a machine with the fly ware drive
and the Ethernet cable and something else
to plug in to get the nick to come active.
And you booted up OS X server, and
you found that file sharing is now
in server admin is no longer in workgroup management.
So this is the easiest tool to use on
Mac OS server to be able to do this.
It allows for easy creation of ACL's.
It allows for custom ace creation, which are
very nice just little clicky clicky boxes.
We can propagate these tools down.
And we'll look at this a bit more in our demo.
But notice our propagation tool.
I have all kinds of flexibility.
I could just push out the group owner of these files.
I could just push out the everyone's permissions,
the POSIX owner, and the ACL's if I wanted.
Generally, I end up just using this for ACL's.
This is also how you can remove ACL's
very quickly from your tree as well.
But it propagates down very selectively what you need to go.
We have the effect of permission
inspector, which now looks different.
It's got the HUD display, because this is a media ap.
And so we can use this to evaluate
what we're going through, and we can,
we can use this to effectively take a
look at that complex composting of that.
And we will show you a little bit of this
in our demo with a few little caveats.
So I'm going to switch over to my demo machine
now, which looks like the screen has dimmed on.
There we are.
And we're going to take a look here, and
we're going to do a very quick little demo.
A word of caution here, we do seem to
have a couple of challenges currently
with the effective permissions manager in this build.
So the effective permissions manager may
not be showing us exactly what is right.
But it is actually functioning.
And it will be fixed well before you
guys try to put this in production
and well before we ship the first production builds at this.
So I wouldn't worry about it too terribly much.
When you're using file system, ACL's generally
were going to go ahead and were going to use it
in a file sharing sort of sense here on server.
And a lot of times, you know, you've got users you want to
keep out of things and users you want to let into things
and users you want to restrict how much access they have.
So we're going to take a look at this demo
and we're just going to very easily go
through and create a small file structure.
We're going to limit some users and allow others in.
So we have this pretend design firm here, which is, you
know creative market's a big part Apple's market place.
And we have a couple different groups.
We've got designers, freelancers and managers.
Alright? Now in workgroup manager here,
we can also take a look at these groups.
If I were to look at the user, you can
see the inherited groups come down,
because I actually have another group called
global for applying these global changes.
Now when you're looking at doing administration on
your servers you might be tempted to use everyone here.
The problem with using everyone for defining file
system writes is that everyone means everyone else.
It's everyone you didn't specifically
defined in a previous access control.
So it includes Cyrus iMap, and includes the
Web server user, it includes all that stuff.
And if we're defining file system privileges for file
sharing to a specific group of people we probably don't want
to have to worry about having all these
other users that we normally don't think
about inside the system having access to our file systems.
So I tend to make another group called Goebel
or file sharing or whatever and then I just nest
in my other group of users that I want to use.
So the managers are going to need full access to everything
the full control set which, is one of our defaults.
It means they can do what ever they want to anything.
They automatically get and allow on every single thing.
We've got designers.
And these designers are going to need access
to everything read wise, but not right wise.
We have a manager's folder that we
want them to have no access to it all.
And we want them to be able to
move things around between folders.
And then we have these lowly freelancers.
These are probably college kids may be
high school dropouts that you had to hire
and work your way at night building your new ad campaign.
So we only want them to have read write access to
the freelancers area and then we want a drop box
that they're supposed to put their finished work in
that they can't get it back out, because you know,
they were on my space or something like that and they
dropped their own file in and you want to be able
to catch them at that so you can get rid of them.
So if you're using Tiger, one of the,
this is where your sharing will be.
Now in Tiger, there is, you have
to make sure the ACL's are enabled.
In Leopard it's a default state.
And later builds of Tiger it's a default state
But in Tiger and workbook manager there
actually is a checkbox in the sharing pane.
To enable access control lists on this volume.
And it actually gives you a funny little warning,
it says warning, this gives you lots of control,
you know, which is usually why I turn it on.
But like I said I don't want the power going to my head.
But you can check that with, in
that tool you can also enable them
with the file system ACL control
application at the command line.
And you can use this to enable or disable
ACL's on a particular volume as well.
But in Leopard it's all on by default so we
don't have to worry about turning it on anywhere.
And we can go right ahead to building things.
So I'm gonna switch over to server admin.
And look at the nice sign in server
admin if no one's seen that yet.
And our file sharing tab is just right here
in the middle and we can see our directories.
I've got my main drive and I've got my backup drive.
So we can go ahead and switch this
over to volumes and we're gonna browse.
And I'm gonna make a new folder on server.
And I'm gonna call it AFP design.
Okay there's AFP design.
And then I want to share this item.
So I will share this item and then I can switch over to
my share points and eventually it will show up there.
Save changes, there it is okay just to the second.
And then on the permissions tab we have
got what we want our permissions to be.
So we're going to go ahead and we're going to, the
first thing we're going to do is we're going to,
lets get rid of most of this POSIX stuff.
This is an exercise in ACL's.
So I want this to be done by the
local admin user on the box.
And I don't want any writes for groups or and I don't want
any writes for the others, which again should be everyone.
We'll take a look here at permissions now.
So now we can see the writes on this are very
restricted right now from a POSIX standpoint.
So we're gonna start to build this out.
So we want to make a folder inside here
which I can use the new folder button for.
And the first folder we're gonna make is
called, we're gonna make one called managers.
Okay, and you kinda have to click
on and off here, there it is.
We're gonna make one called jobs.
And we're gonna make one called freelance
as soon as that one shows up, now freelance.
Okay, and let's figure out where to put those.
I put them in the wrong place.
So I'll do it with this actually,
this probably works better.
Jobs, there we go, and freelance.
Okay, so we'll jump back to our share points now.
Now when I start defining my ACL's and I start
thinking about how I'm gonna plan these things out,
I find it's probably best to do the broad strokes first.
In this case I am gonna make one more
folder called drop box in here just
so we can see a little bit deeper
hierarchy and how things go together.
And this is really decided it wants to ignore me today.
and of course I've messed things up
with those rights but we'll get there.
There we go, alright.
So I want thing about the broad strokes and how things work.
So in this case I know that the
managers need full control to everything.
So that's an easy one to define.
I can just come in and drop them in and then
I can have manager full control everything
and I can propagate that to everything.
So I'll just pull up my groups here real fast.
And I'll grab my managers group and I'll drop that in there.
And then here you can see our defaults.
Our defaults are we do all four methods
of inheritance right off the top.
Our default is also an allow and our default is a read only.
It's a nice safe default.
It doesn't give anyone access to go in
and mess anything up, which is, you know,
one of the points of being an administrator is
you don't want them messing with your stuff.
so, in this case though I want it to be a full
control because these are the people that, you know,
write the checks and they need to be able
to have control to everything in this case.
So I'm gonna switch to a full control.
All that full control means is it
gives every single write possible.
It gives the, it goes through the
ace and it defines every single one.
And if we were to look at that actual that ace
in depth here we could see that all that does
and it comes through and it just checks every box.
And we'll look at creating some
custom aces here in just a moment.
So I click okay on that I click save.
Now if I go back in, wait for it to stop pin wheeling.
( Silence )
And this is acting even more strangely than it was before.
There we go, okay.
So now you can see that's on there.
But if I click on one of these
other items, I don't have any ACL's.
I remember that's because it doesn't propagate automatically
just because I told it you're gonna be able to inherit down.
You have to actually go through that process manually.
So that's pretty easy to do.
we'll select AFP design here.
and I'll pull up the propagations permissions tool.
And in here I do have all these different options.
Can everyone see that alright?
Good. I can propagate any of the POSIX things
and I can do these on an individual basis.
I don't have to just say POSIX or ACL's.
I can actually pick the owner name and the everyone
permission and then the access control list.
In this case we're going to go ahead
and propagate everything down so
that everything is owned up and
looks like this enclosing folder.
Click okay, it grinds away for a minute there, okay.
And if we look at it we should start
seeing that they did in fact inherit down
So now we cans tart drilling down.
And these are inherited.
And you can tell they're inherited because they're
gray and they aren't available for editing.
If I double click on one notice it's
there but I can't do anything to it.
It's not an explicit ACL.
In Tiger there's actually a little
inherited yes no box as well that you'll see.
But here this is one with a nicer simpler interface.
They're easy to tell apart so the actual yes
no inherit thing was a little bit redundant
because if you can't make changes to
it and it's grayed out it's inherited.
Now I can perform options actions
on all these inherited ACL's.
I could come in and I could remove my inherited entries
which then remove the inherited
entries from that file or folder.
And I could also make these explicit
and then I could further edit them
from that point and then they'll propagate down again.
as long as I don't go back to the root and do a forced
propagation again or somehow magically recreate that file
in some way that it just kind of is reborn, then it's not
gonna pick up that original inherited again because one
of the two key operations is not happening.
It's just gonna stay in an explicit state.
So, we're not gonna change anything on that right now.
But what we're gonna do is, I'm gonna pull out, and here's
the part of the demo that might get a little bit hairy.
I'm gonna pull out the affected permissions inspector.
Now when you are working on ACL's
leave this guy up on the screen.
Okay? Just leave it there, put it in the corner.
You all have twin 30 inch displays for a reason.
And so you can use that and you can put this over on
one and, you know, everything's on the other screens.
So, in this case you can see what directory
I'm looking at, what user I'm evaluating.
And this will look so much better than the
one on Windows I'll tell you that for sure.
But I can take in a user notice it's user not group.
And in fact, if I try to drop a group in there I can't.
That is the way it works by default because you really
can't evaluate the permissions for a group in that way.
So I'm going to drop in myself being a manager and
looks like drop box, and of course it doesn't do.
So we'll go back here.
This is the part that's acting a little bit strange.
It's okay, we'll work through it.
So this one normally then would light up and
it will show me everything down the line.
It gives checks for the things I have, if there's
a group that I don't have complete control
over you get the little minus tick mark there.
If there's an area that I do have complete
control over you'll see a checkbox there.
And I can actually show you some of these in a couple
different places let me put local admin in there.
There we go.
Local admin is a local admin on the box
and he is the POSIX read and write owner.
So notice he's not in the manager's group, but it composites
those writs out so that he has all these writes here.
And the tool is working very nicely
for showing those results.
It's just getting confused on the multiple ACL's.
If I looked around the rest of the
file system here, I can easily see,
and it keeps the user I'm looking at what their writes are.
There's a full control.
If I were to drop another use them
on the system in there though.
You can see, the default writes that you have.
So this would be if I click on it to 755 permissions.
And notice that we have in this case, a custom
everyone deny this is injured by default.
I did not create this.
We are moving on at Apple to using
ACL's more and more as we can.
And if we were to look at what this was denying here.
We can see, it denies delete, and it denies the inheritance.
So by denying the delete.
It means that everyone can not delete that.
If I were to look at another user in their
you can see that Jule just has those options.
And if I were to look at the drop
box can see it's a drop box.
Not drop boxes, traditionally when you may be.
You could just do read write in everyone and you just
would do read only read write and execute for the owner
and you would just do write and
execute for the other people.
But here we actually have a little
more complication going on.
We have read attributes and we have
traverse folder and read permissions.
And then under right we have everything except delete.
So deleting the subfolders and files, which is
something they can't do because they can't actually go
into the folder, although they can traverse the
folder, which is the part that confuses most people.
And so they can actually change the contents of
that directory, because really what is a directory.
It's kind of, it's a record of things in the area.
It isn't actually a bucket that
stuff is stacked up in its actually,
when you change the contents of
that folder, you're changing that.
So, in this case we need to traverse so you can actually
put something in there, if you don't have the traverse,
if you just came through with an ACL and told that I
want to allow write one day be able to delete the file,
which also depends on the enclosing folder writes,
and the other one is that they would be able.
They would not be able to actually put anything
in it, because they cannot traverse the boundary
of that directory to be able to drop anything in there.
And I'm going to continue to just look around here
a bit in the system so that we can see this stuff.
And we can evaluate different users.
Notice in the share they can't delete, local admin,
Jule, they cannot have access, it just has read access.
But the actual local admin has the regular amount of access.
Notice on OS X server.
We don't give them the ability to delete the home
folder, because that would be a fun phone call.
I just threw it in the trash, but it's on the server.
So you have a backup right.
So, in this case will go through here and take a
look at, because these it is evaluating properly.
We're going to get brave though and kind
of try to soldier back through here.
So taking a look in here with local admin,
if we look at Justice entry level point here,
which it should work okay on this, and I put in a manager.
And of course it's not working properly on that.
But what you would see normally is, it would be all full
and in this case any other user that wasn't local admin
or inside this managers group would have
no access to the share point whatsoever.
When they connect with AFP, we do our
nice share point enumeration with AFP.
So that people can actually see share
points that they can't connect to.
With SNB without tuning in a bit, you
know, you get all the share points anyway.
And then you get a nasty message when you try to use it.
But in this case we would need to allow more
people to have read access to everything.
Otherwise, they don't even get to the share point.
If I were to come through here and in
freelance on the freelancer folder I were
to give them my freelance group write access to this because
this is an area they need to be able to get into and use.
So I'm gonna give them read and write it applies to only
this folder because I do not want and it only applies,
actually it does apply to all the descendants, excuse me.
So we'll click that button and
then we'll propagate that down.
Or actually we don't even have to.
so if we propagated it down then
we'd have to remove it from here.
but in this case because propagation's
not automatic it doesn't go.
So I didn't have to go back and clean
up the ACL I didn't want on there.
So, in this case now, the freelance
folder has two different ones.
It's got managers full control and
it's got freelancers read and write.
The EPI on Tiger and when this one gets working all the
way will show for any member of the freelancer's group
that they have no access to this folder,
which seems completely counter intuitive
to what the aces actually say on the screen.
And the reason it will tell you that is because
they don't have access to get to that folder.
And if you can't actually traverse the tree far
enough to get there then you don't have any access.
So, in this case what we need to do is add our global group
and give our global group a read
only to the route of the file share.
So, that's a pretty easy thing to do.
and this is a reason I like to create these groups
that are just generic groups for file sharing.
This group would only contain users I wanted
to actually connect in a file sharing way.
So I'll click save on that and then I will propagate it
down because that's another one of those broad strokes
that you may not notice the first time
when you're trying to set this up.
And in this case we just wanna propagate the ACL's.
And it's gonna propagate that real fast.
And then when we take a look now we can see
we've got that global and that managers in there.
Now I'm not gonna go through all the creation of the drop
box when I already showed you guys the drop box writes.
The important ones to remember when we
look at the drop boxes if I click back
through and look at local admin's drop box here.
these are the important ones to remember.
You gotta be able to read the attributes,
read the permissions,
traverse the folder, and just don't let them delete it.
And that creates a drop box with an ACL.
It's a different way to do it than with the POSIX
command, POSIX permissions but it will allow you to create
that drop box so that it's not a big issue.
So before I put everyone to sleep with this enormously long
demo, I'm gonna go ahead and show you one last thing here.
And that is the ultimate power of the deny.
So, we only want managers to be able to get in here.
and in this case let's pretend, for whatever reason,
I don't know why, I don't wanna remove my global read.
So right now I've got a situation where I could
have people be able to go in here and get in,
and actually now that I think about it what's
wrong about, no that one does work, so.
I'm gonna take a look at my managers folder.
And I don't wanna remove that global read.
Manager's full control, great that's what they need.
So, what I need to do though is take designers
and freelancers and this will be a situation
where I could use the everyone also to go ahead and clean
up everything else on the system as well to deny this out.
And I'm gonna make these denys.
And I'm gonna make them full controls.
And now when I save that, and I go
back to my folder, there at the top.
So even if I really messed up and I said oh yeah them adding
my controls freelancer allow oh I gotta get out of here.
I gotta get home my favorite show's on.
I don't want to be able to give that allow and mess it up.
So even if I fat fingered it and
I gave the freelancers full access
to the accounting data this isn't gonna make me get run out
on some sort of sox petard because they're not gonna be able
to come get me because we've reordered that
ace automatically to put that deny at the top.
So, I could go and add as many
allows as I'd like for people.
But, that deny is gonna stop them in their tracks.
It's not gonna let them in and it's gonna override them.
Okay, so we're gonna switch back to the slides now.
( Silence )
All that essentially works the same on Tiger.
You just do it in work group manager.
I wanted to show it in server admin because
that's a major change of where those controls are.
The next little bit we're gonna talk
about is service access controls.
This is something that's slowly been
creeping into the OS a little bit.
Anyone in here run a 10 3 VPN server?
Yeah a couple hands.
That had a SACL in it, remember, you could
restrict VPN access to a specific group of users.
Well this allows us to do this for everything.
And we get a bunch of different fun ones.
And in Leopard now we get them on the client's side too.
So we can get a lot more granular about
who can do things without having to go
and edit SSH comp files and all that stuff.
so, what a service access controlled list does is
essentially it's finery control of who can do what.
Who can access what services on
that box, whether it's a client,
whether it is a server machine
you can start controlling this.
For example you could restrict FTP access, wonderful
clear FTP, and you could restrict that down to just very
under privileged users that are not critical that have
extremely tight access on the system and things like that.
So that that way, you don't have some
admin user, while some guys outside
with a wire crack, and he's taken a look at your system.
And all of a sudden he sees an admin log in
with FTP in the clear, that's a bad thing.
So this will be able to deny users from doing that.
SACL's also have a really cool trick.
And districts actually in the documentation now too.
And it's been documented on afp548
dot com and a couple other websites.
This is a cool way you can use an OS X server a mail server
to provide mail access from non open directory accounts.
And we'll talk about that in just a minute.
But on Mac OS X, the non-server version, the
SACL's again there are fine grained control,
and you can restrict access to specific groups or users.
And we do this in system preferences.
It used to be you did this in (inaudible) manager and
other places kind of got real hacky about it on your Tiger.
But it all worked.
But in this case, we're going to use the
system preferences to set up our SACL's.
And it's pretty easy.
Most of them are found in the sharing panel.
And in this case, you can see.
I restrict it down to only these users.
The plus and minus buttons here are really cool, and they'll
look out in directory services and other places like that.
So you can kind of get in there
and get really granule with this.
You can do this on just about everything.
So I can control is allowed to as SSH into my box.
I can control who can send a remote Apple
events in my box, which prevents so many pranks.
It's almost hardly worth turning on if it's not your system.
On Mac OS X server, we have more levels of these now and
in this case now, any server on the box can be restricted.
We can restrict this big long list of
stuff, and we also now have the ability
to re create restricted service administrators
You can say this admin can only look at these services.
You can say this admin can only monitor the services.
So it allows you to start handing out things to people
that you normally really wouldn't be handing them out to.
( Applause )
how many people on Tiger or earlier, took server admin made
some silly little admin user and then ripped all the modules
out of server admin so you could give
someone control to restart service?
Yeah yeah see don't do that anymore.
You can just give them the server admin and let them get
you down, but they can only have access to what you say
so on server, server admin is where we do our SACL's.
This is very similar to Tiger.
It has changed a little bit.
So the access tab allows us for easy SACL creation so
that we can go through and be able to take care of that.
We have our administrative SACL's and were
going to take a look at these as well.
In this case, you can see.
I'm giving the managers the ability
to monitor the AFP group.
Why? Because their managers, they are not administrators.
Alright, they might sign my paycheck,
but they're not touch in my box.
So, we also have this ability to go in
and ad these SACL's for the mail server.
And I will talk about this one in
just a couple more seconds here.
OS X in open directory, we have this
thing called the mail attribute.
And the mail attribute is a sign when you go into work
group manager, and you click enable mail for this user
on Xserver that makes your mail attribute.
And if it doesn't have that then it has no,
the mail server doesn't know what to do.
So in this case, you can take a group from
AD, drop it in here as a SACL, and enable it.
And this will enable a more traditional
UNIX mail accounts for these users.
This is actually in the Tiger documentation now that you
can do this and in various other Mac OS X server books
that you can pick up as well as afp548 dot com.
So we've got a demo we're gonna
take a look at here really quick.
So I'm going to switch back to my demo machine.
We probably have, I put more into this demo, because I knew
that the other demo was going to get cut a little bit short.
So the first thing I'm going to look
at here, is my system preferences.
And this is on a client machine.
And these are things I didn't have before.
I did not have SACL's before.
And you can see I have even much more control over
AC else now as well here with the file sharing
with the new file sharing systems that we have with
Mac OS X. We also have better display of ACL's in here,
although it's still you really can't do
it as much as you'd like to do in them.
If I were to actually click on a folder I own there
we go to like documents let's see, you can see again,
I really can't do much in here right now.
This is pretty much what we had in Tiger as well.
So in this case, I can go through
and I can restrict different access.
So in this instance, I won a restrict from the login.
And by default, I've got it set.
It set for all users in this case, I set it up for just me.
But I want to do something a little more creative here.
So instead of only these users and if I click the
plus you can see, I kind of get this system built out.
I can create a new person in here,
and other things like that.
Wouldn't it be great if we could do groups on the client?
Which you can though, so I'm going to come
in here and I'm going to create a new group,
and I'm going to collect SS age access, SSH users.
I can spell that easier.
Creates a group, I'm going to put these two accounts in it.
And there we go.
So now I've got this SSH users
group and I can see who's in there.
I'm going to go back now go back to
my sharing pane, and in this case,
remote login is going to be restricted,
ooh it didn't find it.
Well in this case, we'll say to administrators.
How about that, so this restricts this just to
local administrators, so that we can go ahead
and start ratcheting down on the services a little bit.
And you can see, this is pretty pervasive stuff.
It's in all our different services,
remote management this always was here.
It just looks a little bit different now in ARD.
And we have we just split out some
of the writes some a little bit.
Xgrid, remote Apple events, like I said great for
pranks, but you know it's something you might want to try
to restrict some on your network, because
it could be seen as a security pool.
And so we got pretty easy ways now to do SACL's and ACLs
on flying is not something we've ever really had before.
You could do it before, and there were some shareware
utilities on Tiger to allow you to get in there and do that.
But the real meat of this again still is on the server.
So if I look at server admin here.
And I go up to settings, and I go to services access.
This is where I can start to really
restrict down what I'm looking at.
And in this case, I've got this FTP only group
which has one user on it called FTP user.
You can use this, I've seen people do this
to hand out a generic FTP user account.
I know it sounds like generic accounts, that's terrible,
but if there's only one possible
account you can access with FTP.
If you ever have an FTP breach,
how much cleanup do you have?
Not a lot.
So you know, hey, that's that user, I better change
the password and all of a sudden you're done.
So it makes your life a lot easier in this case were
going to go ahead and were going to restrict FTP.
And we have a couple more checkboxes, and
I'm going to say FTP only can get access
to that before I do that I am going to connect to it once.
And I'm going to connect with just
a regular user name and password.
Josh, and it'll connect here in just a second.
So it's going through it's evaluating that.
And there we go.
I connected up with FTP.
And I'm going to make one quick change here.
There we go.
For the sake of the demo that's much easier.
So I'm going to eat check that out.
So but I don't want Josh having access to that.
Josh in this case is a manager user.
Local admin at this point could FTP in,
and that's not a username and a password.
You want getting compromised.
So I'm going to take a look and I'm going to restrict
FTP access down to only allow members of the FTP group.
And in here, I only have one user.
So now, if Josh tries to connect, and I'm going to go
through again and it's going to spin for second Josh Apple.
It's not going to let me connect to the FTP.
But FTP user can get in, so I'm
restricting down this service,
and I'm controlling who's allowed to have access to this.
And this is really good for insecure services.
So the next thing that I want to show you in here is
the male attribute, which, again sounds really simple.
You know it here we go there we go.
Alright, now I've got a Mac OS, in a nutshell I've
now enabled mail use if I turn on the mail server
and configure it properly for that
group of users from active directory.
You can use this to build a really
fast outgoing FTP service or something
like that, because I know you all love exchange.
So that's a very quick way to go
ahead and connect and restrict this.
So another thing we can do here that's
really cool is the login window.
And this came up in some discussions that Jule
and I had with a couple of people this week.
How do you control access to the
consul of a workstation or server?
Now, if you're using our policy
out of the directory our MCX stuff.
You can go in and you can do this with computer lists
and restrict you can login and things like that.
But what about the server?
You know, I know all your servers have
no keyboards there behind locked grates
on the racks behind you know the three different
biometric locks to get into the manager out.
But we all don't have that I had one place where ran
servers, where they actually wouldn't let me have a door
for the server closet, because
there was no air vents and it.
There were several problems with that
sentence, all of which I won't go into.
If you went to the effective system admin session
yesterday, you probably know, what most of them are.
But in this case, I can actually control login window, and
in the case of this, this will control access to the consul
of the server, which is very important to get.
Apple when we started in 10 4 separating
by default are directory administrator
in our local administrator on the box.
That is a great thing, because you don't, it may mean you
have one extra button to click and one extra password to tie
or put in your key chain, but it restricts
and keeps the local administration separate
from the directory Main administration.
And in this case, I don't want a domain
admin to come in and login on this machine.
So I've actually created a group called
Consol Admins, which only contains,
if I go look at Consol Admins here, it's a local group.
It's not in the directory.
It is local to this machine.
And it only contains the local administrator on this box
because I want to control who can log in through the window.
So in this case, I'm going to restrict
login window to just Consol Admins.
I'm going to click save, and I'm
going to go take a look at that.
Ooh finder pen wheeling, come on finder.
( Silence )
Oh come on.
Oh there it is, alright.
It was that FTP on melt.
So I'm going to go in and take a look here
using nifty new feature in a leper right.
And I can try to log in as their admin.
No not allowed in local admin I can log in and in
fact, that's the only user I'll be able to log in as
because I've restricted down console
access to that one particular thing.
It's kind of confusing name, I found login window,
because it seems like an odd service
to access the login window service.
But in this case, it makes perfect sense because
it keeps you from using the login window.
Another little nice bit of UI I like there to share
folder bar that shows up at the top of any shared folder.
So before you drop the accounting data in there,
you can know that it's a shared folder,
and it's probably time to check it out.
So let me log out of that row fast.
Yes. The reason that connection failed his
I'm not allowing guest access into my server.
Another little bit here that we like is notice that
I've only got the active services in server admin
and without talking about it too much
outside the scope of this session.
It means I can basically select in server admin
which ones I show and which ones I don't show.
And in this case, I'd love to be able to give out
permissions for a group of users to monitor a service.
So they can actually look to see if
it's running before they call me,
because it may be something else that's
wrong, it could be any number of things.
So we actually have the second tab
under access called administrators.
And I can say for the AFP service,
I'm going to give my local admins,
remember file sharing is a local administrative privilege
because it's actually changing things on the box.
They can administer a server and
then I'm going to say that designers,
because they're the ones that always call kid monitor.
You can tell I've got a pre press back there.
The designers always call.
And now I can hand out server admin, and I can give server
admin after I've restricted my other services as well
to the appropriate groups and make
sure all my SACL's are set up.
I can hand out server admin now to
members of the administrator group.
And they can login and they can take
a look at AFP, and they can see.
Oh yeah AFP is running.
It says it's up I can see there's
current connections, and everything else.
I better not call Josh and wake him up.
I'll let him sleep.
I'll call his minion.
So Jule gets a phone call, and then we go on from there.
In this case the local admin group could
then log in and administer the server.
And remember again that file sharing is a local.
It's in the context of the local administrator group
because it is something that is a local operation
to the file system and where you share out there.
Okay? I'm going to switch back to slides now
( Silence )
So, real quick here, to sum up what we just
looked at today before we get into our Q
and A discussion, is that ACLs allow for control.
Like the funny little dialog box in
workgroup manager in Tiger would tell you.
Look out this may be more than you're asking for.
So don't go crazy with ACL's on your file system.
If you don't need to go crazy with
ACL's on your file system.
We seen people get into trouble because, you know,
all those sure POSIX would have worked just fine.
They could have done everything they wanted
to with the they wanted to use ACL's for it.
And in the case of very simple structures.
It may be more complication than you
actually need to get your job done.
And who once more work?
No hands, so you can use the traditional
UNIX tools to work with your ACL's.
And currently all this works, right.
Rsync with the E flag, the Big E, it works.
Copy, TAR, CPIO all that stuff, if it uses our copy file
it's going to work, and it continues to work in Leopard.
So you can use that to work with these
tools like I said deploy with moderation.
If you don't need to complicate your life
as a systems administrator don't complicate
your life as a systems administrator.
No one needs more work.
Use the effective permission specter when you're
doing your file system ACL's leave it open.
The whole time and drop a member of the group that you're
thinking about adding at that point in time in there.
It tells you what group it is.
It tells you what folder it's looking at it will save
your mind from just rotting and rolling out of your ear,
because you don't want to sit there
and gas that well I gave them traverse.
And I gave them read attributes,
but not extended attributes.
And oh why isn't this working?
You can just look at the EPI and
you can see why it's not working.
And you can go oh, he needs that
checkbox, and you can go back to the allow
or the denying and add or remove a checkbox.
At Mac OS X are workstation version now, now is easy SACL's.
They're just in system preferences.
It allows us a lot more control over it so we can go through
and very quickly go in and control who can access what.
And the ways different people can
come into that machine from remotely.
And that's a very important part of any network security
plan is controlling who can get into what and how